All right.
So how do we solve equations involving exponential and logarithmic functions.
So there are three steps.
Number one is isolate the logarithm or the exponentiation by itself.
That means put it on one side of the equal sign and everything else on the other side.
Number two is apply the inverse process.
So because exponential algorithmic functions cancel each other out if you have an exponential function
you're going to apply a log.
And if you have a logarithmic function you're going to exponentiate.
So inverses of each other.
And finally we're going to solve for x and remember it whatever you do to one side you have to do it
to another in case you have no idea what I'm talking about.
This is like solving for x.
So remember back in the for example the increasing and decreasing intervals that we needed to find the
numbers that made the derivative equal to zero.
So we had an equation and we had to solve for x.
This is exactly what we're doing here.
All right.
So let's do our first example.
Let's say that we have
two
L.A.X..
Mine is 12
equals zero.
All right.
So we need to solve for this x.
So Step 1 is isolate the logarithm or the exponentiation by itself.
In this case we have a logarithm.
So let's go ahead and isolate this.
Ellen IVAX I leave it by itself.
So the first thing we're going to do is we're going to add 12 on both sides to move this 12 to the other
side.
So we have two Ellen IVAX.
Mine is 12 equals zero.
So we're going to add 12 on both sides plus 12 over here and plus 12 over here.
So this cancels out and that leaves those with two LNA VAX equals 12.
All right.
So the element of X is still not by itself it's being multiplied by this too.
So we're going to divide by two on both sides.
And let's continue here on the side.
So two over two cancels out and we're left with L.A.X. equals 12 over 2 which is 6.
All right.
So we're really isolated the logarithm by itself.
We have Alan Novak's on one side and six on the other one.
Next step is to apply the inverse process.
So if we have logarithm we're going to apply exponentiation and again here we have a natural log.
So we're going to apply exponentiation using E because that is the base.
If you had a different base like 10 or 5 or 20 we would use exponentiation with that specific base.
So what we're going to do is we're going to put E.S. a base on both sides
and we're going to put all of this in the xponent section.
Right.
So on the left side you have E to the Allen of X and on the right side of the equal sign we have just
the six.
So this six comes over here did you see what we did.
We just basically exponentiate it everything.
So we put a base of e on both sides and then whatever we had we put it as an exponent on exponents of
this.
And finally again this is a baseball analogy all over again we're elevating e to a number so that when
you elevate it to that number you get x.
Therefore this is shows X on this side so that doesn't make a lot of sense.
I will ask you to go back a couple of minutes into the last slide and check out what we were talking
about.
We literally did this same example each of the line of x.
So again this is like saying a plane baseball makes you happy if you play baseball.
What's going to happen.
You're going to be happy.
That is the analogy.
And that is your X..
So on the other side we have each of the six so we could actually calculate what each of the 6 is because
that's a number it's 2.7 won approximately the 6.
But we're just going to leave it as E to the 6 and that is our answer.
See that we solved for x.
All right.
So let's quickly do another example.
But instead of using log's we're going to use exponentiation.
So we're going to do the opposite.
So example to let's say will want to solve for x here.
So 1000
equals e to the 2 x plus 5.
All right.
So again what we have in this case is exponentiation.
So the first thing we're going to do is we're going to isolate the logarithm or the exponentiation by
itself.
In this case that step is already done because the exponentiation is on one side and then the 1000 is
on the other.
So let's go to Step 2 let's apply the inverse process.
So if we have exponentiation the inverse process is logarithms.
And because the base again is e We're going to apply the natural log and we'll do that on both sides.
So on both sides let's take the natural log.
We have L-N of 1000
ants L-N L.N. of E to the 2 x plus 5
right.
So again let's rewrite this line of 1000.
And I hope this is clear by now what will be the answer to this.
Well again we're saying find me an expression so that when I elevate it to that expression I get the
two x plus five.
Hey it's exactly that right.
It's exactly 2 x plus 5
Get So we apply the inverse process and we were able to get rid of the log.
Now we just have x.
And by the way we still have a log on this side of the Log on this side is a number right.
It's the number so that when you elevate e to that number you get 1 0 0 0 0.
So if we plug this in the car later we'll definitely get a number.
In this case though we actually had to get rid of this L-N because you have an X. You have a variable
in there.
Same thing for this.
We actually had to get rid of the logarithm because there's an X inside of it.
OK.
So third step is to solve for x.
So what we'll do is we'll move this five to the other side so we'll subtract 5 from both sides minus
five.
By the way this minus five is not for the 1000 it's for the whole expression.
OK.
You cannot say something like a thousand minus five is 995 Lague of 1985 doesn't work like that.
So we'll just leave it as L-N of a thousand
minus five equals Oh by the way this becomes zero equals to X which is what we have left on this side.
So we have 2 x ants to get the X itself.
We need to divide by two on both sides to remember it whatever you do to one side you have to do it
to the other two cancels out and we have X so I'm just bringing this X over here and on the other side
we have L-N of 1000
minus five.
Everything over to that is our answer.
All right there you go.
So we just did two examples of how to solve equations that have logarithms or exponentiation.
So the main takeaway from this is that if you have a log you need to apply exponentiation and if you
have exponentiation at some point you will need to apply a log.
So there are just inverses of each other.
The three step process is to isolate the logarithm or exponentiation by itself on one side.
That's what we did here.
So we move this 12 to the other side and then divide by two and same thing that we did here.
But for example two that was actually already done the way the problem was given.
And then once we isolate that logarithmic function or exponential function we just apply the inverse
process.
If you have a log a playgroup initiation if you have exponentiation you apply a log and that should
actually cancel out any logs and any exponentiation that you have.
All right.
And at that point you can just go ahead and solve for x and again like I said if you have for example
one of a thousand remember that is a number in the same way if you have each of the six that is also
a number it's only when the log or the exponentiation contains an X..
That's when you need to solve.
All right.
At this point each of the six and of a thousand are just regular numbers that you can get in a calculator.